Documented criteria by which we decide that a failure is tolerable. (#839)
kubernetes/sig-release: release-blocking-jobs.md

CI Signal Team members will regularly check the Informing Dashboard for new
failures.  Unexplained failures that are not flakes should be considered reason
to block the release until the failures are investigated and evaluated.
Unlike Blocking, however, jobs in Informing do not need to be green before

> authorizing a release, they can be failing for known and "acceptable" reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authorizing a release, they can be failing for known and "acceptable" reasons.
Such failures are "tolerated", meaning that they are not release-blocking, although
they need to be corrected after the release as time allows.
```

> The criteria for deciding whether a failure in informing can be ignored in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The criteria for deciding whether a failure in informing is not release-blocking is
```

> The criteria for deciding whether a failure in informing is to be ignored can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The criteria for deciding whether a failure in informing can be ignored is
```

based on the following considerations:

* Failure is due to a malfunction of the components that run a job and said

>   components are not related to Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  components are not part of Kubernetes
```

  * For example, if a job is marked as failing because a test cluster could not be setup
    but there are similar jobs that run the same tests, then the failing job

>     can be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    is tolerated.
```

>   * If a job stage stage, that is not related to the test results, fail

Reviewer 2: stage stage

>   * If a job's stage, a stage that is not related to any Kubernetes e2e test, fails

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * If a job fails at a stage that is not related to any Kubernetes e2e test
```

    (e.g., couldn't upload some logs to a remote source) then the job failure can be

>     ignored given that the stage doesn't disrupt any e2e tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tolerated given that the stage doesn't disrupt any e2e tests.
```

>   * If a test-infra-related component fails and no there are no other factors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * If a test-infra-related component fails and there are no other factors
```

>     that could be responsible for the failure then the failure can be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    that could be responsible for the failure then the failure can be tolerated.
```

> * Failure well understood and is caused by the configuration of a test and said

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Failure is well understood and is caused by the configuration of a test and said
```

  configuration is not related to an official SLO

>   * For exaple, if a test polls for metrics more fequently than these are

Reviewer 4: typo /exaple/example/

>   * For example, if a test polls for metrics more fequently than these are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * For example, if a test polls for metrics more frequently than these are
```

    updated and fails because of it, then the failure may be ignored.

> * Job is flaking too frequently and is marked as failing

Reviewer 2: I have a bit hard time understanding this section, could we maybe try to rephrase it a bit? Especially the first bullet point under this one. 

So are we saying that we can ignore jobs that are actually flaky but are already marked as failing because they flake too much? 🤔

Author: Thank you for catching this one!
I reworded it but essentially, what I wanted to communicate was a case as this one:
* we have a gce-cos-master-default job
* gce-cos-master-default job is marked as failing because the `overall` stage has failed in the last N runs
* `overall` stage is marked as failed for last N runs because there have been M unrelated e2e tests that flaked once or twice during the last N runs.
  * If there is a e2e test that flakes multiple times during the last N runs then we DONOT ignore

wdyt?

>     updated and fails because of it, then the failure may be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    updated and fails because of it, then the failure may be tolerated.
```

>   * This should only be done when different tests are flaking. If the same set

Reviewer 2: If the same set of tests are flaking... ? Is the sentence not finished? Do I understand it correctly that the criteria is that if the same test is flaking as much as it marks the whole job as failing, then it blocks the release?

Author: :sweat_smile: sorry about this one. I rewrite it but yes to your last question.
If there are multiple unrelated tests that flake a few times and thus caused the job to be marked as failing then we may ignore, otherwise we block.

    of tests are flaking then we should fix them.

> * A test failed and was subsequently removed, thus marking the job as failed.

Reviewer 3: meaning "the last info we have on this test is that its status is failed but it is irrelevant now?"

Author: Yes. This is completely empirical and something that I know has been done in the past.
Because e2e tests are chosen based on tags that are specified in jobs (i.e., jobs run "all tests that have label X as opposed to running a prescribed list of tests), it is possible for someone to include a e2e test in a job by accident, or to include it during development and then remove it, among some other instances.

Because of these reasons, in the past there have been instances where a test appears, it fails, then it is removed. Tesgrid is only aware that that e2e test has not had a successful run so it can mark a job that is otherwise healthy as failing until it forgets about the test that disappeared (which can take multiple days).
